---
layout: post
title: "Scratch; A Visual Programming Language"
categories: junk
author: "Pubudu Welagedara"
meta: "Programming"
comments: true
---

[Scratch][scratch] is a Visual Programming Language primarily targeted at children to help them understand the basic Computer Programming Concepts. 

## Getting started with Scratch

### Signing up

Go to [https://scratch.mit.edu/][scratch] and create your account by clicking the `Join Scratch` button. Enter your details and keep clicking next until you finish signing up. 

{% assign image = "1-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "Site" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

{% assign image = "2-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "Join Scratch" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

{% assign image = "3-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "Sign up" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

### Creating a new project

First login to Scratch with the account you just created. 

{% assign image = "4-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "Login" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

Click the create button to create a new project.

{% assign image = "5-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "Create Project" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

{% assign image = "6-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "New Project" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

### Writing the first program

A `Sprite` is a set of objects that perform actions. A Sprite consists of `Scripts`, `Costumes` and `Sounds`. 

`Scripts` can be created by dragging and dropping the items in the `Scripts` tab.

{% assign image = "7-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "Scripts" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

`Costumes` are the images in the project. 

{% assign image = "8-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "Costumes" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

`Sounds` are your sound tracks. 

{% assign image = "9-scratch.png" %}
{% assign alt = "Sounds" %}
{% include srcset.html %}

You may have to create a simple program first to understand how Scratch works. 

[Here][project] is the project I created. 

This is how my projects looks like on YouTube.

{% include video.html url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/U10KjT_yMxw" width="560" height="315" %}

[scratch]: https://scratch.mit.edu/
[project]: https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/268547315/























